In this project, you’ll be building your own basic design system for a website. In essence, you’ll be building a website to help you build MORE websites in the future! On your site, you’ll collect all the colors, fonts, and some of the repeating styles.

REQ1: MET
To complete this project, you should have completed the Codecademy lessons covering the CSS box model, display and positioning, colors, and typography. You can use more advanced CSS layout concepts like flexbox, CSS grid, or responsive design, but they won’t be required.

REQ2: MET
Your style guide/design system will include at least a section on colors, fonts, and specific text styles, but it can be extended to as many other areas as you’d like. You can take a look at our basic example site (https://content.codecademy.com/PRO/independent-practice-projects/website-design-system/example/index.html?_gl=1*arook2*_ga*MTA0NDA3MzE1Mi4xNjU4MTk2ODQ3*_ga_3LRZM6TM9L*MTY1ODU2NjI4My42LjEuMTY1ODU2NjUxNC41Nw..) for a taste of what you’ll be building (yours will be customized).

REQ3: MET
Your style guide should include a labeled section outlining the colors to be used.

REQ4: MET
Each color should have:

  - A name (you can come up with this name yourself)
  - A box displaying the color itself.
  - The CSS value used to create the color (in hex, rgb(), rgba(), hsl(), or hsla()).
  - An optional description of how you intend to use the colors.

REQ5: MET
Your style should include a labeled section of the fonts to be used (we recommend importing fonts from Google Fonts).

REQ6: MET
For each font, the goal is to to demonstrate the various styles that you intend to use (font weight, style, size, and text decorations). To do this, you should include the following for every font:

  - The font name
  - A series of styles that you intend to use (for example, styles could include: plain, bold and italic, underlined).
  - For each style, include a sentence or series of words to demonstrate the text style (our example site uses the quick brown fox…).

REQ7: MET
Make sure to display each of the sections in the proper font, size, and style.

REQ8: MET
In addition to the list of possible fonts, your style guide should include a section for specific text styles for page elements. For example, you could set main heading (<h1>) guidelines about text size, fonts, font styles, font weight, and more.

REQ9: MET
Include at least 3 element styles, and ideally as many as you’d like to use in future sites.

REQ10: MET
For each page element, include:

  - A page element name (for example, “Subheading”).
  - All style rules (for example, font-weight: 700).

OPTIONAL:
Add any additional styles that you’d like to include to make your style guide/design system look great. This could include positioning, layout, additional colors, box model properties, and more.

If you’d like some inspiration, you can look to the following samples:

  - Salesforce’s Lightning Design System (https://www.lightningdesignsystem.com/utilities/text/)
  - Google’s Material Design (https://material.io/design)
  - Twitter’s Bootstrap (https://getbootstrap.com/).

Great work! Visit our forums to compare your project to our sample solution code. You can also learn how to host your own solution on GitHub so you can share it with other learners! Your solution might look different from ours, and that’s okay! There are multiple ways to solve these projects, and you’ll learn more by seeing others’ code.

If you’d like to extend your site, consider:

Adding additional components (you could document the various buttons that you’d like to use).
Learning how and then implementing a responsive design so that your site looks great on all screen sizes.
Adding navigation and splitting up your site so that each section has its own HTML page.